index.md, before:

---
---

**Primary Issue Addressed**

*Maintainers are consistently presented with improperly formatted lesson PRs.
They also find (as new maintainers) that when using their remote forked copies of the
Carpentries repos, they are "behind" or "ahead" of the original Carpentries repo.
This makes it difficult to visualize the exact rendering of the lessons they
are maintaining.*

These pages contain information about the process for making a clean, up-to-date repo.

This also has a little about how the GitHub really works from a beginner perspective, 
and just to help beginners. *It may help experienced users understand the beginners.*

Protocols: 
1. [Clean Git for maintainers and beginners](./Maintaining-for-beginners-narrative1.md).

2. [Beginner-beginner maintainer's detailed](./One-detailed-protocol-for-beginner-maintainers.md) (updated!).

3. [Beginner but not maintainer detailed](./One-detailed-protocol-for-beginners.md) (updated)

As we get suggestions, we can compile them in a single document so that problems and solutions are easy to see in one place. That document will be the [Suggestions-corrections-tips-and-tricks](./Suggestions-corrections-tips-and-tricks.md) document.

[Motivations and Disclaimers](./motivations_and_disclaimers.md)

edit on [GitHub](https://github.com/hoytpr/git_beginner/)

Commit message:

Update that this repo is depricated

index.md, after:

---
---

**Primary Issue Addressed**

*Maintainers are consistently presented with improperly formatted lesson PRs.
They also find (as new maintainers) that when using their remote forked copies of the
Carpentries repos, they are "behind" or "ahead" of the original Carpentries repo.
This makes it difficult to visualize the exact rendering of the lessons they
are maintaining.*

These pages contain information about the process for making a clean, up-to-date repo.

**EDIT: GitHub now provides a simple button to update your repo to the latest version of the remote repo.**

Because of this, most of this repo is obsolete. I'll be removing it when I have time to go through and delete all obsolete info, hoping there is still some info that is useful.

This also has a little about how the GitHub really works from a beginner perspective, 
and just to help beginners. *It may help experienced users understand the beginners.*

Protocols: 
1. [Clean Git for maintainers and beginners](./Maintaining-for-beginners-narrative1.md).

2. [Beginner-beginner maintainer's detailed](./One-detailed-protocol-for-beginner-maintainers.md) (updated!).

3. [Beginner but not maintainer detailed](./One-detailed-protocol-for-beginners.md) (updated)

As we get suggestions, we can compile them in a single document so that problems and solutions are easy to see in one place. That document will be the [Suggestions-corrections-tips-and-tricks](./Suggestions-corrections-tips-and-tricks.md) document.

[Motivations and Disclaimers](./motivations_and_disclaimers.md)

edit on [GitHub](https://github.com/hoytpr/git_beginner/)
